README.md, before:

# Rural Surge: A Study of Internet Quality & Availability in Kansas

### Project Team
Sebastian Scholl, Fernando Porras, Mindy Collmeyer, Teresa Wehmeier


### Background on our Topic
For small rural counties in Kansas, the 2020 pandemic emphasized a lack of quality internet access. Schools were closed, and emergency remote instruction became the method to address educational delivery moving into fall 2020. However, as students and parents attempted to learn and work from home, it became clear that not all internet is created equal. Many community members had only cellular data service, which made participating in an online learning environment impossible. Those who had internet access experienced low download rates that many were unable to participate in online class activities.

Our group decided to dive into this topic, and research internet availability and quality in the state of Kansas.

### Source of our Data
- State Library of Kansas (https://kslib.info/423/State-Data-Center)
- FCC Fixed Broadband Deployment (https://opendata.fcc.gov/Wireline/Fixed-Broadband-Deployment-Data-December-2020/hicn-aujz)


### Questions we hope to answer with the data
- How does internet access support (quality, availability, etc) compare between rural and urban areas in Kansas?
- What Internet Service Providers (ISPs) are available in Kansas? How does their support vary between rural and urban communities?


### Communication Protocols
- Group Slack channel
- Group Project GitHub, including a branch for each team member
- Breakout room during class time
- Zoom call scheduled for Saturday, March 19th at 10:00ct
- Team has shared phone numbers and email addresses


### Tools Used on our Project
- GitHub 
    * The largest and most advanced development platform in the world.
    * https://github.com/
    * Used to organize our research and documentation.
- Pandas
    * A fast, powerful, flexible and easy to use open source data analysis and manipulation tool, built on top of the Python programming language
    * https://pandas.pydata.org/
- Python
    * A general-purpose, versatile, and powerful programming language.
    * https://www.python.org/
- QuickDBD
    * A simple online tool to quickly draw database diagrams.
    * https://www.quickdatabasediagrams.com/
    * Used to create our schema doc.
- Canva
    * Online design and publishing tool 
    * https://www.canva.com/
    * Used to design the Project Flowchart.
- GeoJSON
    * A format for encoding a variety of geographic data structures.
    * https://geojson.org/
- Tableau
    * A visual analytics platform transforming the way we use data to solve problems—empowering people and organizations to make the most of their data.
    * https://www.tableau.com/

### Machine Learning Model
- See <a href="Resources/Machine Learning Work Flowchart.pdf">diagram</a>
- See <a href="Resources/ProjectFlowchart.pdf"> Project Flowchart</a>


### Database
- See <a href="Resources/schema.sql">schema doc</a>


### ERD FCC Tables
<img src="Images/ERD_FCC_tables.png" width="50%" height="30%">

Commit message:

Update to Machine Learning Model section.

README.md, after:

# Rural Surge: A Study of Internet Quality & Availability in Kansas

### Project Team
Sebastian Scholl, Fernando Porras, Mindy Collmeyer, Teresa Wehmeier


### Background on our Topic
For small rural counties in Kansas, the 2020 pandemic emphasized a lack of quality internet access. Schools were closed, and emergency remote instruction became the method to address educational delivery moving into fall 2020. However, as students and parents attempted to learn and work from home, it became clear that not all internet is created equal. Many community members had only cellular data service, which made participating in an online learning environment impossible. Those who had internet access experienced low download rates that many were unable to participate in online class activities.

Our group decided to dive into this topic, and research internet availability and quality in the state of Kansas.

### Source of our Data
- State Library of Kansas (https://kslib.info/423/State-Data-Center)
- FCC Fixed Broadband Deployment (https://opendata.fcc.gov/Wireline/Fixed-Broadband-Deployment-Data-December-2020/hicn-aujz)


### Questions we hope to answer with the data
- How does internet access support (quality, availability, etc) compare between rural and urban areas in Kansas?
- What Internet Service Providers (ISPs) are available in Kansas? How does their support vary between rural and urban communities?


### Communication Protocols
- Group Slack channel
- Group Project GitHub, including a branch for each team member
- Breakout room during class time
- Zoom call scheduled for Saturday, March 19th at 10:00ct
- Team has shared phone numbers and email addresses


### Tools Used on our Project
- GitHub 
    * The largest and most advanced development platform in the world.
    * https://github.com/
    * Used to organize our research and documentation.
- Pandas
    * A fast, powerful, flexible and easy to use open source data analysis and manipulation tool, built on top of the Python programming language
    * https://pandas.pydata.org/
- Python
    * A general-purpose, versatile, and powerful programming language.
    * https://www.python.org/
- QuickDBD
    * A simple online tool to quickly draw database diagrams.
    * https://www.quickdatabasediagrams.com/
    * Used to create our schema doc.
- Canva
    * Online design and publishing tool 
    * https://www.canva.com/
    * Used to design the Project Flowchart.
- GeoJSON
    * A format for encoding a variety of geographic data structures.
    * https://geojson.org/
- Tableau
    * A visual analytics platform transforming the way we use data to solve problems—empowering people and organizations to make the most of their data.
    * https://www.tableau.com/

### Machine Learning Model
- <a href="Resources/Machine Learning Work Flowchart.pdf">Project Planning diagram</a> - Outlines our plan for collecting data, and presenting it to the class.
- <a href="Resources/ProjectFlowchart.pdf"> Project Flowchart</a> - Decision Tree model for our project.


### Database
- See <a href="Resources/schema.sql">schema doc</a>


### ERD FCC Tables
<img src="Images/ERD_FCC_tables.png" width="50%" height="30%">
